In the age of social media, our digital and physical lives are more intertwined than ever. Some people can't watch a football game without checking online reactions, while others chase engagement with every picture they post. No longer are social media platforms just ways to stay in touch with family and friends; today, we also use sites like Facebook, Instagram, and YouTube to find new information, express our ideas, share our experiences, and explore diverse opinions. On the surface, this increased human connection seems like a good thing. Unfortunately, as with most human activities, things are not so clear-cut. In fact, they're rather messy, as social media has both positive and negative effects on our lives.


So, let's start with the positives, shall we?


Pros
First and foremost, social media gives us another way to connect with people. Not only can we share pictures of our vacations with our friends and family, we can also find like-minded strangers and entire communities dedicated to our interests. This allows us to participate in broad or granular discussions on books, music, fitness, philosophy, or pancakes. There really is a community for just about everything on the internet. 


For those who have the motivation, social media is also a great place to learn new things. YouTube is full of videos about a variety of topics. Whether you're into history, engineering, or dead languages, there is probably a video made just for you. 


In addition to learning new things, many people use social media to stay on top of what's happening in the world. We can stay informed about global events, and we can even find out what we can do to help during natural disasters and times of war or social conflicts.


Finally, social media provides a space for shy or socially anxious people to express themselves. Not everyone is a confident public speaker, but they might be wordsmiths in a digital space; some people are just more comfortable typing than speaking.


But it's not all sunshine and rainbows. With that in mind, let's move on to the cons.


Cons
To start, social media is addictive. We want to know what's happening all the time, so we check our phone every few minutes to scan new posts and reactions. As you can imagine, this has obvious downsides. For one, as with gambling or alcohol, when we are addicted to something, we can become distracted from our jobs, families, and other activities. Social media addiction can also lead to sleep disruption, as we tap our screen while lying in bed at one o'clock in the morning. In short, we sacrifice real-world responsibilities and relationships for digital dopamine hits.


Social media can also be terrible for self-image. Teenagers in particular are vulnerable to feelings of inadequacy, and can develop unrealistic expectations via comparison. For instance, when Lina sees someone on Instagram with perfect skin, she might become envious and partially tie her self-worth to her physical appearance. Consequently, people who do not fit conventional beauty standards or social practices can become victims of cyberbullying, hate, and discrimination. These experiences can lead to mental health deterioration, and trigger conditions such as anxiety and depression.


Lastly, while social media can be a good place to keep up with the news, many news posts are biased or incorrect. This is because anyone can post just about anything. In turn, this often leads to heightened feelings of anger, especially when it comes to social and political issues. When it comes to news, we have to be careful and ask ourselves, "Is this true, and do I actually need to respond?"


Conclusion
While social media can be a positive place to connect with other people, we need to be aware of its pitfalls. This means being aware of its addictive character, its culture of comparison, and its fondness for misinformation. If we are unable to use it in a healthy way, it is better to just log off and turn our attention to the world that is right in front of us instead.